Fix incorrect field name (#813)
redpanda-data/documentation: modules/console/pages/ui/add-license.adoc

= Manage Enterprise Edition Licenses through Redpanda Console
:description: Learn how to manage Enterprise Edition licenses in Redpanda Console.

> You add, update and check your xref:get-started:licensing/overview.adoc#console[Enterprise Edition license] for both Redpanda and Redpanda Console directly through the Redpanda Console UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add, update and check your xref:get-started:licensing/overview.adoc#console[Enterprise Edition license] for both Redpanda and Redpanda Console directly through the Redpanda Console UI.
```

== Prerequisites

> - You must have an Enterprise Edition license. If you don't have a license yet, https://www.redpanda.com/contact[request one^].

Reviewer: Same comment as previously about the link text.

> - You must have an Enterprise Edition license. If you don't have a license yet, https://www.redpanda.com/contact[request one^].

Author: ```suggestion
- You must have an Enterprise Edition license. https://www.redpanda.com/contact[Request a license^] if you don't have one already.
```

+
If Redpanda Console has enterprise features enabled and it cannot find a valid license either locally or in the connected Redpanda cluster, it shuts down.
- Redpanda Console must be xref:console:config/connect-to-redpanda.adoc[connected to a Redpanda cluster].
- Redpanda Console must be xref:console:config/connect-to-redpanda.adoc#admin[configured to connect to the Redpanda Admin API].

> TIP: If you don't have Redpanda Console connected to a Redpanda cluster, you can xref:console:config/enterprise-license.adoc[configure Redpanda Console to load the license key from its local configuration].

Reviewer 2: This implies Console Enterprise can be used without a Redpanda cluster. Not sure we want to support that and call it-out explicitly. Maybe just mention it as another way to mount a license for Console?

> TIP: If you don't have Redpanda Console connected to a Redpanda cluster, you can xref:console:config/enterprise-license.adoc[configure Redpanda Console to load the license key from its local configuration].

Author: ```suggestion
TIP: You can also xref:console:config/enterprise-license.adoc[configure Redpanda Console to load the license key from its local configuration].
```

== Check the license status in Redpanda Console

> You can check the expiration date of a license on the Cluster Overview page in Redpanda Console, under the Licensing section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check the expiration date of a license on the **Cluster Overview** page in Redpanda Console, under the **Licensing** section.
```
If this is UI text...

If the license is due to expire within 30 days, a warning banner is displayed on all pages of Redpanda Console.

See also: xref:get-started:licensing/monitor-license-status.adoc[].

== Upload a new license

When a new license is uploaded through Redpanda Console, it is replicated across the cluster and stored persistently in Redpanda's internal metadata, ensuring it is retained across restarts.

> include::console:partial$licensing/kubernetes-note.adoc[]

Author: ```suggestion
CAUTION
====
include::console:partial$licensing/kubernetes-note.adoc[]
====
```

To upload a new license directly through the Console UI:

> . Open the Upload License page, using one of the following methods:

Author: ```suggestion
. Open the *Upload License* page, using one of the following methods:
```

+

> - Cluster Overview page:

Author: ```suggestion
- *Cluster Overview* page:
```

+

> Navigate to the Cluster Overview page in Redpanda Console.

Author: ```suggestion
Navigate to the *Cluster Overview* page in Redpanda Console.
```

> Under the Licensing section, click on the *Upload new license* link to upload a new license key.

Author: ```suggestion
Under the *Licensing* section, click on the *Upload new license* link to upload a new license key.
```

> NOTE: Do not use Redpanda Console to upload a new license in Kubernetes. Uploading the license through Redpanda Console does not persist the license in Kubernetes resources such as Secrets or manifests. As a result, the license is lost during Pod restarts, scaling, or redeployments. Instead, use Kubernetes secrets, Helm values, or manifest files to ensure automatic and persistent license management. See xref:get-started:licensing/add-license-redpanda/kubernetes.adoc[].

Reviewer 3: What does Console do here that would explain this? I might be missing something but because in Redpanda Core the license is stored in the controller log (redpanda internal metadata), it should survive pod restarts and scaling. Only complete teardown and redeployment of the cluster (with fresh volumes/data directories) would mean that the license is lost.

Author: Thanks @pgellert -Redpanda Console is calling the Admin API `PUT /v1/features/license`.  I think I should clarify:

```suggestion
NOTE: If you use Kubernetes to deploy Redpanda, do not use Redpanda Console to update the license if it's already set in your Kubernetes resources. During upgrades or redeployments, license values in your Kubernetes resources will override the license set using Redpanda Console. For consistent license management, set the license using either Redpanda Console or Kubernetes resources, but not both.

```

This is where I need some clarification from @chrisseto - our post upgrade/install job in the Helm chart resets the license and some other cluster config settings. So I believe we'd want to use the same advice we do cluster configs: to avoid using `rpk cluster` and instead rely on the Helm values (Kubernetes resources).

https://github.com/redpanda-data/helm-charts/blob/56e8cc7a5e8a34ed1a27c8073490e76493ecda86/charts/redpanda/post_install_upgrade_job.go#L136C6-L166C8

Author: @pgellert is it expected to set the license again after upgrading Redpanda? Or since we use rolling upgrades should the license be replicated onto the upgraded brokers?

Reviewer 2: Why is a license "lost"? Does the operator require & enforce a license too? If you upload the license through Console the license should still be persisted in Redpanda, so pod restarts shouldn*t matter unless we experience complete data loss.

I see how it's a recommended way, but I'm probably missing why it's crucial to use K8s resources instead of uploading to Redpanda directly.

Reviewer 3: >is it expected to set the license again after upgrading Redpanda?

As @weeco said, the license is stored persistently in Redpanda so it isn't lost during upgrades.

Author: I mean that Kubernetes operates under the principle of declarative configuration. When you update your Redpanda cluster by applying a new manifest or updating Helm values, Kubernetes reconciles the actual state of the cluster with the desired state defined in your configuration files.

As part of this process, an update triggers a post-install/upgrade job, which re-applies the Redpanda cluster configuration, including any settings defined in your manifest or Helm values. This includes the license.

Author: I tested this and persistence works fine if you only use Redpanda Console to set the license. However, the license gets overwritten if you upgrade like so:

```
helm upgrade --install redpanda redpanda/redpanda \
  --version 5.9.7 \
  --namespace jake \
  --create-namespace \
  --set external.domain=customredpandadomain.local \
  --set statefulset.initContainers.setDataDirOwnership.enabled=true \
  --set image.repository=docker.redpanda.com/redpandadata/redpanda-nightly \
  --set image.tag=v0.0.0-20241017git7e72855 \
  --set console.image.repository=redpandadata/console-unstable \
  --set console.image.tag=master-73eca43 \
  --set enterprise.license=my license
```

Author: I've updated my suggestion to the following:

NOTE: Do not use Redpanda Console to update the license if it's already set in your Kubernetes resources. During upgrades or redeployments, license values in your Kubernetes resources will override the license set using Redpanda Console. For consistent license management, set the license using either Redpanda Console or Kubernetes resources, but not both.

Reviewer 2: That makes a lot more sense to me now! Thanks

Reviewer 3: Yeah that's great, thanks @JakeSCahill

- Expiration warning banner:
+
If the existing license expires soon, you can click the *Upload license* button in the expiration warning banner.

. Upload your license.
+

> image::console:license.png[]

Reviewer: I found this image a bit confusing. What am I meant to do to upload the license?

Author: clarified the instruction.

> . Open the Upload License page. The Upload License page is available at the `admin/upload-license` path or using one of the following methods:

Reviewer 2: I feel it's a bit odd to direct people to page by providing the relative URL. We may change this URL in the future, as we are free to choose the URL. This page is browsable too, but I think mentioning just one way (browse to "Overview", under the licensing section ...) is enough

> . Open the Upload License page. The Upload License page is available at the `admin/upload-license` path or using one of the following methods:

Author: ```suggestion
. Open the Upload License page, using one of the following methods:
```

> image::console:license.png[]

Author: ```suggestion
image::console:license.png[]
+
When a new license is uploaded, enterprise features in Redpanda Self-Managed are unlocked immediately without requiring a cluster restart. However, to unlock enterprise features in Redpanda Console, you must restart the Redpanda Console instance.
```

> . Restart the Redpanda Console instance.

Reviewer 2: As of today there are no Console Enterprise features which do not require additional configuration. Therefore I'd reword this a bit. Users won't see a difference after a restart. Maybe something like this: Upon restarting all enterprise features such as RBAC are unlocked.

> . Restart the Redpanda Console instance.

Author: ```suggestion
After restarting Redpanda Console, enterprise features such as RBAC are unlocked. However, to enable and use these features, you must configure them. See xref:console:config/index.adoc[].
```

+
If Redpanda Console has enterprise features enabled and it cannot find a valid license either locally or in the connected Redpanda cluster, it shuts down.
- Redpanda Console must be xref:console:config/connect-to-redpanda.adoc[connected to a Redpanda cluster].
- Redpanda Console must be xref:console:config/connect-to-redpanda.adoc#admin[configured to connect to the Redpanda Admin API].

TIP: You can also xref:console:config/enterprise-license.adoc[configure Redpanda Console to load the license key from its local configuration].

== Check the license status in Redpanda Console

You can check the expiration date of a license on the **Cluster Overview** page in Redpanda Console, under the **Licensing** section.

If the license is due to expire within 30 days, a warning banner is displayed on all pages of Redpanda Console.

See also: xref:get-started:licensing/monitor-license-status.adoc[].

== Upload a new license

When a new license is uploaded through Redpanda Console, it is replicated across the cluster and stored persistently in Redpanda's internal metadata, ensuring it is retained across restarts.

> CAUTION

Author: ```suggestion
[CAUTION]
```

====
include::console:partial$licensing/kubernetes-note.adoc[]
====

To upload a new license directly through the Console UI:

. Open the *Upload License* page, using one of the following methods:
+
- *Cluster Overview* page:
+
Navigate to the *Cluster Overview* page in Redpanda Console.
Under the *Licensing* section, click on the *Upload new license* link to upload a new license key.

- Expiration warning banner:
+
If the existing license expires soon, you can click the *Upload license* button in the expiration warning banner.

> . Upload your license.

Author: ```suggestion
. Upload your license. You can drag and drop a license file into the box or copy and paste the license string into the text input.
```
